Lab 1 - Wed 7/18
Warm-up
Python tutorial: https://www.waiwaing.com/python/
Get acquainted with Hamster and its API. Learn about the APIs in robotAPI.txt. Methods to be used: set_wheel(), set_led(), set_buzzer(), set_musical_note() to understand how to control Hamster using provided API.
Understand how Hamster sensors work by using get_proximity(), get_floor(). Get familiar with range of sensor readings and how reading changes with distance and surface color.

Check-off 1
Python tutorial check-off

Check-off 2
Implement the following Hamster behaviors: 
Moving in a square shape without using sensors
Using proximity sensors, implement shy, dance, and follow
Using floor sensors, implement line following
Add buttons to the starter program and implement all the behaviors in one program

Optional
Implement maze solver using side sensor attachment. Ask TAs for the attachment.
Lab 2 - Thu 7/19
Assignment
Implement UI for Hamster showing the sensor readings
Implement joystick controller for Hamster

Check-off 1 - UI components
Square representing Hamster
Two line segments representing proximity sensor readings
Two small rectangles on the Hamster representing floor sensor readings
The rectangle should be filled black if the sensor is on a black line

Check-off 2 - Joystick
Use wasd keys as joystick to move Hamster around

Optional
Navigate maze using UI + joystick
Maze solver using side sensor attachment
Grid navigation

Lab 3 - Fri 7/20

Assignment - Hamster Escape
Functionalities
GUI window shows a square representing Hamster. One button to start Hamster escape and one for exit program.
Display line segment and acknowledge (sound) when proximity sensors detect obstacle
Acknowledge (sound) when border is reached
Hamster avoids obstacle when it detects any
Components
Four threads (including the original thread)
Motion handler responds to events that are generated by Event Watcher thread. It handles Hamster motion control.
Event watcher is responsible for reading Hamster proximity and floor sensors and adding these events to the two event queues.
Alert handler responds to events that are generated by Event Watcher thread. It displays proximity sensors. This is the main (original) thread. The GUI is in this thread, and you do not need to create a new thread for this since the GUI will refresh itself.
Bluetooth comm thread. Spawned to connect the Hamster.
Two event queues, one for motion and one for alert handler. Event watcher thread puts event in the queues while alert and motion handlers get events and take appropriate actions.

Check-off
Escape while avoiding obstacles
Display prox sensors

Optional
Maze solver using side sensor attachment
Grid navigation
Detect and acknowledge intersections by stopping and playing a tone
Lab 3.5 - Sat 7/21
Assignment
Finish up previous labs
If you have finished, please work on the maze solver
Lab 4 - Mon 7/23
Warm-up
Study the parking ticket demo code to understand how FSMs work
Compare the parking ticket demo code with the state diagram presented in class

Assignments
FSM Obstacle Avoidance
Design (on paper!) the state diagram for obstacle avoidance, including transition of states in the machine, the event/triggers, and the actions/callbacks
Implement Hamster sensing and motion control callback functions for obstacle avoidance. Integrate sensing and control with FSM.
FSM Escape
Extend FSM Obstacle Avoidance into FSM Escape. Same requirements as the Hamster Escape assignment.
FSM Trash Cleaner
The goal is for the Hamster to push trash outside the black bordered arena
Design (on paper) the state diagram
Hamster stays inside arena at all times
Hamster acknowledges detection of trash with sound
Hamster turns around after it has finished pushing a piece of trash past outside border

Check-offs
FSM Obstacle Avoidance
FSM Escape
FSM Trash Cleaner

Optional
Extensions of FSM Trash Cleaner
When trash is detected, align the Hamster with the trash to minimize chance of losing it while pushing it out
Acknowledge when each piece of trash is pushed out
Acknowledge when a total of three pieces are pushed out and then stop Hamster from moving
Lab 5 - Tue 7/24
Assignment 1 - Hamster Simulator
Tune d_factor in tk_simulator_joystick_starter.py to accurately simulate your Hamster
What is d_factor? Each yellow grid in the simulation corresponds to 2 cm in the real world. This scale factor is used to map the real Hamster’s speed in the real world to the simulated Hamster’s speed in pixel space.

Assignment 2 - Collision Detection
Design and implement collision detection for the Hamster simulator
Design algorithm on paper, then implement inside the in_collision function

Check-offs
Hamster Simulator - drive the Hamster for 20 - 30 cm and show that the simulator accurately reflects the distance driven
Collision Detection - Hamster in simulation should not be able to drive into obstacles
Lab 6 - Wed 7/25
Assignment 1 - GridGraph
Implement all methods in GridGraph class (starter_grid_graph.py)
For a given grid, generate a simple undirected graph with no edge costs
The grid description is dimension (# rows x # cols) and locations of nodes that are occupied by obstacles
The node names in the graph reflect the location of the node on the grid

Assignment 2 - Display
Implement all methods in GridGraphDisplay (starter_grid_graph_display.py)
This class has a handle to an instance of GridGraph class, and displays the grid graph, highlights the start and goal nodes, and highlights the path

Assignment 3 - BFS
Implement BFS in starter_bfs.py to search the graph created by GridGraph

Check-offs
GridGraph
On each node, labels showing the coordinates of the node must be displayed, for example, (0-0), (0-1), (0-2), etc.
GridGraphDisplay
Displays the grid graph
Highlights (1) start node, (2) goal node, and (3) in-between path nodes in three different colors
BFS
Put the test code from test.py into starter_bfs.py, expect 24 paths from A to G

Optional
Implement DFS
Grid navigation - extend GridGraph, GridGraphDisplay, and BFS to have Hamster execute path returned by BFS on real-life grid with obstacles
Lab 7 - Thu 7/26
Assignment 1 - Grid Navigation
Extend previously implemented GridGraph, GridGraphDisplay, and BFS
Convert BFS path (list of ordered nodes) to a sequence of movements that are executed by the Hamster on real-life grid with obstacles

Check-offs
Grid Navigation

Optional - Continuous Space Motion Planning
Note: Do NOT start this part until you have been checked-off for Grid Navigation
Compute C-obstacles from given work space map. Hamster is simulated as a circle with a radius of 28 pixels.
Implement cutting algorithm to compute free cells
Compute connectivity of two free cells by locating the midpoint of overlapped free edges. A free edge is the overlapped edge shared by two free cells. These points referred to as free points and are nodes in the resulting graph.
Compute distance connecting two neighboring free points. This distance is the edge cost in the graph.
Generate graph using the nodes and edges from above. (code provided in graph_with_edge_cost.py)
Find a path by searching (e.g., Dijkstra) the graph for any given start and goal. (code included in the starter program)

